Notes on AS & A-level AQA Computing (2510)
==========================================

This repo holds all my notes, some of my code, and any other materials I
own copyright to which are relevant to the AQA Computing (2510) course
(AS and A-level).

My main projects are in their own repos -- only small
investigation-style projects will be stored here, since otherwise it'd
be a pain to collaborate.

I store reports & materials for projects in this repo, so you'll see
lots of `*.tty` and `submission.md` files. My class uploads reports to
Edmodo, so that's where they're used.

Though I haven't really been in this position yet, I will *not* upload
binary files like pictures & Word documents here unless it seems useful.
Hopefully that should never be a worry, since I generate gifs from the
`*.tty` files, and Markdown is OP.  I'd prefer to not use office
programs, so you might see TeX source files eventually lolol.

I also use a bunch of scripts to automate a number of boring things
including writing the report: you can find them in the `scripts/`
directory.


Links
-----

AQA's page for the course: [Computing
(2510)](http://www.aqa.org.uk/subjects/ict-and-computer-science/a-level/computing-2510)

You should be able to find the specification on that page. Otherwise,
here is a direct link (working 13/10/14):
[AQA-2510-W-SP-14.PDF](http://filestore.aqa.org.uk/subjects/specifications/alevel/AQA-2510-W-SP-14.PDF)

Past papers, markschemes and other materials: [Past papers and mark
schemes](http://www.aqa.org.uk/subjects/ict-and-computer-science/a-level/computing-2510/past-papers-and-mark-schemes)

(I don't have permission from AQA to distribute any of their documents,
so links will have to do -- see [Publishing past papers and mark
schemes](http://www.aqa.org.uk/exams-administration/exams-guidance/find-past-papers-and-mark-schemes/publishing-past-papers-and-mark-schemes).)


Copying
-------

All of the source code in this repository may be redistributed and/or
modified under the terms of the MIT license (see `LICENSE-MIT`). (do I
need to define 'source code' better? how should I phrase this, anyway?
6_9)

All other materials (notes) are licensed under a Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (see `CC-BY-SA`). The
license can also be found in its canonical XHTML form at the Creative
Commons' website: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
