COMP4 notes
-----------

### Specification analysis

The specification describes COMP4 as a *"Report written by the candidate
documenting a programmed solution to a real problem associated with a
user whose realistic needs should be taken into account when specifying,
designing and implementing the solution."* The COMP4 section has this to
say:

  * *"It allows candidates to demonstrate their knowledge and
    understanding of the systems development life cycle."*
    * Mention phases of the SDLC, perhaps throw the word itself in.
  * *"Projects should be selected which allow candidates to demonstrate
    practical and problem-solving skills..."*
    * Make sure it's challenging & complex enough
  * *"...as well as the techniques of documentation and system
    testing."*
    * Build with the ability to unit test from the ground up


### Things to remember

  * 10 of the 75 marks available are for the user manual, including QWC.
    Remember to document every step of the way.
  * Also remember that you're expected to write separate *technical
    documentation*, e.g. an API reference.
  * They want you to use SMART objectives during the analysis phase.
  * You MUST be solving a **complex** problem to receive like any marks
    whatsoever. And your solution has to be complex because of their
    dumb bullshit.
  * Test data must include typical, boundary and erroneous data.
  * You only get 6 really easy marks for the evaluation (which they call
    'Appraisal').
  * The user manual must include these things for full marks:
    * a detailed description of how to use the system including the
      necessary number of samples of actual screen displays in use
    * samples of error messages
    * error recovery procedures appropriate for prospective user
    * a contents page
    * a brief introduction
    * installation instructions
  * And it must be **comprehensive**.
