Legislation
-----------

There are a few different laws and acts you need to know about for
COMP2. Here are the parts you need to know.

N.B.: [IANAL](!Wikipedia), so please do not use my notes as legal
advice!


### Health and Safety Regulations

Official name: Workplace (Health, Safety and Welfare) Regulations 1992

This Act was passed in 1992 and aimed to improve health and safety in
all workspaces, including offices. Among other things, it requires that
workplaces:

  * provide adjustable, supportive chairs
  * provide adjustable monitors with anti-glare filters
  * allow employees to take breaks
  * pay for eye treatment if necessary (lol)

AQA also asked a nasty question about **office layout** before (May
2012) (?). These are some things a company might have to consider when
designing an office space:

  * TODO
  * TODO
  * TODO


### Copyright, Designs and Patents Act

Official name: Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988

The Act which (as of 2015) governs UK copyright law, namely **patents**
and **copyright**. The points you might be required to regurgitate are:

  * Users are not allowed to **use** copyrighted or patented materials
    (e.g. programs) without permission
  * Users are not allowed to copy and distribute software without
    permission

Note: the next two sections aren't really required, but it's useful to
know about them.

Actually, TODO: remove these and put them in my
[raehik/licenses](!GitHub) repo or something.


#### Patent

A [patent](!Wikipedia) is a form of intellectual property which grants
exclusive rights to an individual (i.e. inventor) or organisation for a
limited period of time in exchange for disclosure of an invention. If
that wasn't clear, the exclusive rights are to the invention. After the
time has expired, the invention is placed in the [public
domain](!Wikipedia).

Computer software patents are basically the dumbest thing ever, but
that's not what AQA care about (and neither do I, to be honest). For
more information see such cases as [BT trying to patent the
hyperlink][bt-hyperlink] and more recently a [company trying to sue
Coca-Cola] for scanning and emailing things internally.

[bt]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BT_Group#World_Wide_Web_hyperlink_patent
[email]: http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2014/01/notorious-scan-to-email-patents-go-big-sue-coca-cola-and-dillards


#### Copyright

Copyright is a complicated topic, and one that doesn't need to be
understand for this course. Just remember that copyright **protects the
creators rights to their work**.

See my repo at [raehik/licenses](!GitHub) for more detail.


### Computer Misuse Act

Official name: Computer Misuse Act 1990

**Personal data:** data that can be used to identify a *living*
                   individual

This Act sought to introduce information security laws to crack down on
*crackers*. Example crimes covered could be breaking into a database and
stealing **personal data**, removing [DRM][] from a program, and
probably any other malicious activity performed on a computer. The
specific things you need to know that it prohibits are:

  * unauthorised **access** and/or **modification** of/to computer
    material (e.g. introduced a virus)
  * unauthorised **access** with **intent** to commit or facitilate further
    offences

[DRM]: !Wikipedia "Digital rights management"

Note that it must be proved that the perpetrator *knew* they were
unauthorised. Furthermore, to prove **intent**, it must be shown that
they planned to use the information maliciously.


### Data Protection Act

Official name: Data Protection Act 1998

TODO
