Networks
--------

  * **Topology:** the shape/layout/configuration/structure of network device
                  connections (i.e. how network devices are connected)


### Bus topology

In a bus network, all computers are linked to a single bus/transmission medium.
TODO


### Star topology

In a star network, each computer is connected via a single link to a **central
computer**. So it looks like a star going outwards from the main node.


### Subnets

*Note: In the course, it seems they prefer you to use the name* ***network ID***
*rather than the Wikipedia equivalent, network prefix. I'll use the proper
one, but keep it in mind.*

*Note note: I might be wrong because a network ID may be something slightly
different, but it won't matter for the exam :)*

A **subnet** is a subdivision of an IP network. If a computer is in the same
subnet as another computer, then they can communicate directly. Otherwise,
requests must go through some other device (>1 router?). Thus subnets are
usually used for performance and security reasons.

Computers that belong in the same subnet have a common part in their IP
addresses. Look at the following IPs:

  * 192.168.1.1
  * 192.168.1.107

As you can see, you can divide an IP address into two parts: the identical part
is known as the **network prefix**, and the other bit is the **host
identifier**. That's good: because of the ordering, computers can easily tell
whether two hosts are in the same network.

...I may have told a bit of a lie back there! My example only works in
situations where there is **no subnetting** (or there is only one subnet
available). In reality, because of the reasons above, networks use **subnets**,
where the subnet number is known from part of the host number. Each IP address
has an associated **subnet mask** that determines which subnet it is a part of.
The name 'subnet mask' comes from the fact that it is applied as a bitmask to IP
addresses.

To determine the network prefix of an IP address, you AND the IP address
together with the subnet mask.


### Exam question: different networks

Simplified from qu. 3d from COMP3 Jun15:

  > Explain how a desktop computer with IP address 192.168.0.2 and subnet mask
  > 255.255.255.0 will use the subnet mask to determine that the data it wants
  > to send to an FTP server at 67.84.23.102 must be sent over the Internet
  > rather than locally.

*A:* An AND operation is performed using the host computer's subnet mask and
each IP address in turn, to produce two network IDs. If these are different,
then the desktop computer knows that the computers reside on different networks.
