Internet security
-----------------

### Firewalls

A firewall is a hardware device or program which sits between the big scary
Internet and a network device (or the whole network if it's on the router) and
block packets which fit specified rules. You can block anything that you can
analyse:

  * Specific ports
  * Specific protocols
  * Specific IP addresses/domain names

Alternatively, firewalls can be made to search packets for text patterns and
block or allow based on matches, or identify unusual behaviour from a host.
Firewalls can also act as a proxy server, effectively preventing external
(Internet) computers from accessing devices on the LAN.


### Public/private key cryptography

From Wikipedia:

  > Public-key encryption, in which a message is encrypted with a recipient's
  > public key. The message cannot be decrypted by anyone who does not possess
  > the matching private key, who is thus presumed to be the owner of that key
  > and the person associated with the public key. This is used in an attempt
  > to ensure confidentiality.
  >
  > Digital signatures, in which a message is signed with the sender's
  > private key and can be verified by anyone who has access to the
  > sender's public key. This verification proves that the sender had
  > access to the private key, and therefore is likely to be the person
  > associated with the public key. This also ensures that the message has
  > not been tampered with, as any manipulation of the message will result
  > in changes to the encoded message digest, which otherwise remains
  > unchanged between the sender and receiver.

Basically this is a version of pub/priv key encryption which uses all four keys
to guarantee that *(1)* the message can only be from one person, and *(2)* the
message can only be decrypted by one person. (Rather than just one of those,
which I originally thought was more common or something. Never really thought
about it tbh.)
