Finite state machines
---------------------

### Overview

  * **FSM:** an abstract machine/model used to design programs and algorithms

A **finite state machine** (FSM) is a model used to design programs and
algorithms. Real-life applications include:

  * traffic lights
  * vending machines
  * regular expressions
  * language parsing

FSMs are *abstract machines* which can be in one of a finite number of states at
any one time (named the **current state**). A change from the current state to
another state is called a **transition**.

An FSM which does not produce output is known as **finite state automaton**
(FSA). FSMs which do produce output are classified into **Mealy** and **Moore**
machines -- more on those later. Remember that an 'output' can be also be an
*action*!

FSMs have a defined set of input symbols, named the **input alphabet**, and if
they produce output then they have an **output alphabet**.

A **state transition diagram** is a special type of directed graph. Nodes
represent states and arcs represent a transition between two states. Arcs are
labelled with a symbolic code, e.g. *a | b*. *a* is the **trigger** and denotes
the input symbol, and *b* (optional, depends on the FSM type) denotes the output
symbol. That is, a **label** is a trigger-output pair.

An FSM consists of these things:

  * input symbol alphabet
  * *If output:* output symbol alphabet
  * finite set of states
  * transition function


### Transition table example

  * **Transition function:** maps a state-symbol pair to another state-symbol
                             pair (a pair being (in/out symbol, state))

*(Note: Remember that 'trigger' is used interchangeably with 'input symbol', at
least in the textbook.)*

Remember that FSMs have a *finite set of states*. For this example, let's
imagine an FSM with states {s, t}, input alphabet {a, b} and output alphabet {a,
b}. This FSM has a **transition function** which maps a state-symbol pair to a
new state and we'll say that it also generates an specific output symbol for
each transition. We can use a **transition table** to represent this transition
function:

    Current state | s | s | t | t
    --------------|---|---|---|---
    Input symbol  | a | b | a | b
    --------------|---|---|---|---
    Next state    | t | s | s | t
    --------------|---|---|---|---
    Output symbol | b | a | b | a

It should be clear that this FSM changes 'b's into 'a's and vice versa.

  * **Deterministic:** each state-symbol pair has *only one* next state
  * **Non-deterministic:** state-symbol pairs may have several possible next
                           states

In order to make a FSM **deterministic**, it is required that each trigger has
*only one outgoing transition from any one state* at most (there can of course
be zero). So if there were two different transitions for the same trigger on one
state, that FSM would be **non-deterministic** since it contains an ambiguity.


### Halting states & errors

  * **Halting state:** a state with no outgoing transitions

A state which has no outgoing transitions is called a **halting state**. Most of
the time, if an FSM is stuck in a halting state with input remaining, it will
report an error.

If the input trigger doesn't exist for the current state, an error is usually
reported.


### FSM designs

  * Action instead of outputting e.g. a symbol
  * 'Signal' instead of input symbol
  * 'Catch-all' case if ([input symbol, ]current state) --> (action, next state)
    produces no matches -- e.g. exception handler state/action called
  * A transition to a specific state can have multiple labels (trigger/output
    pair)


### FSMs with output

  * **Mealy machine:** determines its outputs from current state & inputs --
                       i.e. *during state transition*
  * **Moore machine:** determines its outputs from current state -- i.e. *the
                       state is the output*

As explained earlier, there are two types of FSM: ones without output (automata)
and ones with output. FSAs are restricted to binary decisions. FSMs with output
may be further classified into **Mealy machines** and **Moore machines**. See
the book for a decent example that I don't want to recreate here.

Because the current state in a Moore FSM is determined by the sequence of inputs
it has processed, it possesses **memory capability**. The textbook says that a
Moore machine actually *models a RAM unit*, which may be important to know.


### Finite state automata

  * **Accepting state:** the 'end' state which produces a YES output

FSAs solve YES/NO decision problems, i.e. "does a string match this pattern?".
It simply runs through the input symbols until it reaches the end, and outputs a
YES or NO response depending on the end state. If it's an **accepting state**,
which have **two rings around the state name**, them a YES response is output.
Else, it's a NO response. Remember that an FSA must *always have \>= 1 accepting
states*.


#### Deterministic and non-deterministic FSAs (DFAs and NFAs)

So far we've been talking about DFAs. NFAs wouldn't seem all that useful: for a
given state, an input could have **multiple transitions to different states**.
So it has to make a choice somehow, which isn't so helpful. However, NFAs are
very useful for expressing *pattern searches*; and what's more, **any problem
solved with an NFA can also be solved with a DFA.** You just have to swap and
add states.
