Regex, BNF and RPN
------------------

### Natural & formal language

A **natural language** is a human language e.g. English. It's made up of
symbols and rules.

A **formal language** is one which has an *alphabet* (elements of which are
called *symbols*) and *rules of syntax*. The latter defines how to construct
*strings* from the symbols. To show the way you write these things, consider the
formal language pencil lead hardnesses:

  * Alphabet: {H, B, 2, 3, 4}
  * Strings: {"B", "H", "2B", "3B"}

Note that strings are enclosed in double quotes to differentiate them from
symbols.

In most languages however, there are a limitness number of valid strings. We
need some way of expressing the rules defining how strings can be formed from
symbols. We call these notations **metalanguages**. The ones we'll be talking
about are **regular expressions (regex)** and **Backus-Naur Form (BNF)**.


### Regular languages & regex

**Regular language:** any language that an FSM would accept

See my regex cheatsheet in my wiki for notes. If you don't have access to my
wiki 2BAD


### Backus-Naur form

Some languages can't be defined using regexes. For example, what if you must
allow any depth of bracket nesting, e.g. for expressions in C? Regex quickly
becomes rather cumbersome for some tasks, and the textbook says that it simply
can't define such a language in this case. Instead, we use **BNF** to define
**grammars** for languages.


#### Notation

BNF is made up of **rules**. A rule looks like this:

    <non-terminal> ::= terminal replacement | <non-terminal replacement>

(`::=` means 'defined as/consists of'. Arrows are also used sometimes.)

Rules map non-terminals to terminals and other non-terminals.

You can think of non-terminal symbols as **categories** such as nouns, verbs
etc. and terminal symbols as **symbols** from the alphabet of a formal language.
That's why you only have **non-terminal symbols on the left**, because terminal
symbols are just strings (so they don't map to anything further).

Here's a complete grammar defining the language used to express pencil hardness:

```
<lead hardness> ::= HB | <scale of hardness> | <simple hardness>
<scale of hardness> ::= <numeric value><simple hardness>
<numeric value> ::= 2 | 3 | 4
<simple hardness> ::= H | B
```

Note that we define rules top-down i.e. in increasing 'simplicity'. So terminals
are nearer the bottom. I think it's just convention.

There are actually a few different ways of parsing something according to a
grammar. The most used one is top-down parsing (LL). I originally guessed that
it would be easiest to parse things bottom-up, known as LR parsing. Luckily
though, we don't have to understand how to parse grammars, so I won't be
covering them: if you'd like to know more, check out [Lars Marius Garshol's
page on BNF](http://www.garshol.priv.no/download/text/bnf.html). For now all you
need to really know are **parse trees** and **syntax diagrams**.

  * **Parse tree:** visual representation of how a valid sentence conforms to
                    the syntax rules
  * **Syntax diagram:** basically just a flow diagram for each rule of a grammar
                        defined with BNF


### Reverse Polish notation

tl;dr given an expression:

  * When a number is reached, push it to the top of the stack.
  * When an operator is reached, pop the most recent two numbers and apply the
    operator. Push the result on to the stack.

Let's do an *(edit: overly complex)* example. I want to change the RPN
expression `3x 1 + x -5 + * 3x 1 + 5x 4 + * /` into normal infix notation.

  1. `3x`: push `3x` onto stack. STACK: `3x`
  2. `1`: push `1` onto stack. STACK: `3x 1`
  3. `+`: add last 2 elements & push = `3x + 1`. STACK: `(3x + 1)`
  4. `x`: push `x` onto stack. STACK: `(3x + 1) x`
  5. `-5`: push `-5` onto stack. STACK: `(3x + 1) x -5`
  6. `+`: add last 2 elements & push = `x + 5`. STACK: `(3x + 1) (x + 5)`
  7. `*`: multiply 2 most recent elements & push = `(3x + 1)(x + 5). STACK: `(3x + 1)(x + 5)`

Let's pause here, because it's getting crowded. Note how the next part up to `*`
is identical to these steps? That operation added each pair and multiplied them.
Do the same then with `3x 1 + 5x 4 *`:

  8. STACK: `(3x + 1)(x + 5) (3x + 1)(5x + 4)`
  9. `/`: divide 2 most recent elements & push:

        (3x + 1)(x + 5)
        ----------------
        (3x + 1)(5x + 4)

Easy! The nice thing about RPN is that you can just walk through it step-by-step
and arrive at the answer (given correct working, of course).
